Motivating your team can be very challenging and tough.
Everyone is different and everyone has their own incentives,
so get to know everyone and see what you can do to motivate
each person by their motivation factors.
For example, early in my career, money was king.
Now, well, it's time off.
We're all different.
Now check out this chart.
Appreciation is a very big motivator and it can range from a raise,
time off, an atta-boy or atta-girl, a $100 gift card,
you name it.
It's not so much the token of appreciation as the sincerity,
so just an eye-to-eye, heartfelt thank-you is really great to do.
Okay, so here are some factors you may want to consider in motivating your team.
First, the minimum factors.
These are necessary things to provide to your team to
ensure employees don't become dissatisfied,
but they typically don't contribute to greater levels of motivation.
For example, a reasonable work space and good computer is just plain expected.
On the other hand,
there are some motivation factors and we want to create
motivation and greater job satisfaction by fulfilling a
person's need for meaning and personal growth.
An example would be maybe a new technology that would really help
the business; I might want to work on that.
and maybe a bonus.
Having excellent management.
Well for me, that is in fact a key motivating factor.
Is it for you?
Also, learning new things.
If you follow my approach to building team skills,
this will certainly support this topic.
Even if you can't always apply those skills, your team will know you are trying.
That's important.
Exercising creativity and solving the right kind of problems.
Okay, people get motivated by doing that.
People are motivated by creativity and solving the right
kind of problems that support the business.
So through thoughtful delegation of broader and less detailed tasks,
you will enable creativity to take root and to grow for each person.
Now people also want to have a voice.
By including your team in the activities of project
prioritization that we talked about earlier,
and aligning those daily tasks and building team skills together as a team,
you will provide the forum for your team to have a voice
and opinion in the team's activities.
Being recognized for hard work.
Whether or not the work results in a success or not,
my philosophy is to still recognize hard work.
It may be a nice hand-written card,
it may be a dinner out; it's just that simple.
Sincere, heartfelt thank you!
Building something that matters.
It matters because it ties to the business.
No one wants busy work or work products that just get thrown away.
That is why it is important as a leader to ensure all work is tied to
the business and is prioritized by you and the team.
Now let's explore the need for governance.
So how will you and your new team conduct business?
Well,
I recommend that you do this as a team and you act as the facilitator and
discuss and decide how you want to conduct business.
Sometimes the term governance refers to how you want to conduct
business and refers to all the processes of governing,
managing, and conducting your team's activities.
Okay, so what are the things that you think you might need?
Well, here's a short list.
First,
what standards will you use and follow to help the team produce quality results?
Maybe there are programming standards, how we use C#.
Maybe there is policy regarding security and things like that.
Next, there could be some company and organizational standards and policies.
For example, beyond your control that you must follow.
Maybe it has to do with user ID management,
application security, infrastructure, and things like that.
Next, tools.
What are your standard tools?
Maybe you're going to use Visual Studio,
SQL Server, Bootstrap, C#, Team Foundation Server,
etc.
In other words, these are the tools you will use to get the job done.
My philosophy and a very important point here on tools: use the
fewest number of tools to get the job done.
I don't like a million tools and everyone is doing
their own thing; it doesn't work right.
Next, architecture.
You'll want a standard architecture.
This is more about how you apply the tools.
For example, here is how you're going to do APIs.
Here is how you're going to maybe use stored procedures and things like that.
Next, processes.
What are the standard processes you're going to use?
How will you develop your software?
How will you make builds?
How will you make releases?
How will you put together your test cases and test plans and things like that? Okay, now let's summarize this module.